To OKH OP ABT and to OKH Foreign Armies East from Army Group South IA 01 No 411/43, signed von Weich, General Feldsmarchall,
dated 25/4:

Comprehensive appreciation of the enemy for Zitadelle

In the main the appreciation of the enemy remains the same as reported in Amry Group South IIA, No. 0477/43 of 29/3
and in the supplementary appreciation of 15/4

The main concentration, which was already then apparent on the north flank of the Army Group in the general area Kursk-Ssudsha-
Volchansk-Ostrogoshk, can now be clearly recognized: a further intensification of this concentration is to be expected as
a result of the continuous heavy transport movements on the lines Yelets-Kastornoye-Kursk, and Povorino-Svoboda and Gryazi-Svoboda,
with an increase in the area Valuiki-Novy Oskol-Kupyansk. At present however it is not apparent whether the object of this
concentration is offensive or defensive. At present, still in anticipation of a German offensive on both the Kursk and Mius Donetz
fronts, the armoured and mobile formations are still evenly distributed in various groups behind the front as strategic reserves.

There are no signs as yet of a merging of these formations or a transfer to the forward area, except for II GDS (Guards Armoured
Corps) but this could take place rapidly at anytime.

According to information from a sure source the existence of the following groups of the strategic reserve can be presumed:
A) 2 Cavalry Corps (III GDS and V GDS in the area of Novocherkassk). It can also be presumed that 1 mech corps (V GDS) is being brought
up to strength there.
B) 1 mech corps III GDS in the area north of Rowenki
C) 1 mech corps, 1 cavalry corps, and probably 2 mech corps I GD Armoured, IV Cavalry, I GDS and V mech corps in the area
North of Voroshilovgrad
D) 2 Cavalry Corps, IV GDS and VII GDS in the area West of Starobyelsk
E) 1 mech corps, 1 cavalry corps and 2 armoured corps I GDS, I GDS Cavalry, II and XXIII Armoured in the area of Kupyansk-Svatovo
F) 3 armoured corps, 1 mech corps, II Armoured, V GDS Armoured, XXIX ARmoured a V GDS Mech under the command of an army
(perhaps 5 armoured army) in the area of Ostrogoshsk
G) 2 armoured and 1 cavalry corps, II GDS Armoured, III GDS armoured and VI GDS Cavalry under the command of an unidentified HQ
in the area North of Novy Oskol

In the event of Zitadelle there are approximately 90 enemy formations west of the line Belgorod-Kursk-Maloarkhangelsk.
The attack of the Army Group will encounter stubborn enemy resistance in a deeply echeloned and well developed main defense
zone , (with numerous dug in tanks, strong artillery and local reserves. The main defense being in the key sector of Belgorod-Tamarovka

In addition strong counter attacks by strategic reserve from East and Southeast are to be expected. It is impossible to
forecase whether the enemy will attempt to withdraw from a threatened encirclement by retiring eastwards as the soon as the key sectos
of the bulge in the front lines at Kursk, Belgorod and Maloarkhangelsk have been broken through. If the army throws in all
strategic reserves on the Amry Group front into the Kursk Battle, the following may appear on the battlefield:

- On day 1 and 2, the armoured divisions and 1 cavalry corps
- On day 2, 2 armoured divisions and 1 cavalry corps
- On day 3, 2 mech and 1 armoured corps
- On day 4, 1 armoured and 1 cavalry corps
- On day 5, 3 mech corps
- On day 6, 3 cavalry,
- On day 6.7 2 Calavry

Summarizing it can be stated that the balance of evidence still points to a defensive attitude on the part of the enemy:
and this is in fact unmistakable in the sectors of the 6 Army and I Panzer Army. If the bringing up of further forces in
the area of before the north wing of army group persists and if a transfer forward and merging of the mobile and armoured
formations then takes place, offensive intentions then become more probable. In that case it is improbable that the enemy can
even then forestall our execution of Zitadelle in the required conditions. Probably on the other hand we must assume
complete enemy preparations for defence, including the counter attacks of his strong motorized and armoured forces, which
must be expected.
